[Music]
you know our world is enormous and there
are so many types of life around us it
might sound shocking but there are
approximately 7.7 million species of
animals on our planet with only 12% of
them formally described most of these
catalogue animals live on land and
humankind has still a long way to go to
explore the fauna of the oceans
completely with such an abundance of
life-forms it's not surprising that
people tend to confuse certain animals
let's be honest some of them look really
similar we hope this video will help
clear up some of the confusion rabbits
vs. hares both rabbits and hares belong
to the same family leporidae so it's no
wonder that these cute creatures are the
ones that get confused the most however
if you look at them attentively you'll
easily spot the differences hares are
typically faster and larger than their
close relatives their ears and strong
hind legs are also longer and they have
bigger feet you could also say that
hares are braver than rabbits while the
latter hide in their Warren's when they
feel threatened hares usually try to
outrun predators and in most cases they
succeed to distinguish between hares and
rabbits you can also take a look at
their fur
you'll notice that hares have some black
marks on their bodies Moz versus
butterflies both of these species belong
to the order lepida Tara do you think
you can easily tell a small grey or
brown moth from a beautiful vibrant
butterfly well you'd be surprised to
know that there are species that look
astonishingly alike to know for sure
which creature is in front of you pay
attention to the antennae butterflies
have Club shape antennae that look like
a thin shaft with a bulbous tip as for
moths their antennae are either serrated
or feathery wings can serve as another
hint
Mazz have tent-like wings which they
fold over their abdomen butterflies fold
their wings vertically sheep versus
goats it's pretty easy to confuse goats
and domestic sheep as both species have
a lot of common features both sheep and
goats are cloven-hoofed and have quite
unusual eyes with horizontal rectangular
pupils but take a look at their tails
you will notice that sheep hold them
down whereas the tails of goats proudly
stand up what's more these animals have
different eating habits just like cows
sheep are grazers meaning that they move
across a pasture and pick the vegetation
that is close to the ground with this
method they don't have to lift their
heads as for goats
these animals are browsers choosing
plants growing higher up for their meals
goats have even been known to climb
trees if they see some especially
tempting leaves hedgehogs vs. porcupines
well let's get right to the point
ouch both of these animals are spining
these spines are in fact hardened hollow
hairs that's it these creatures have
nothing else in common
what's more even their spines had
separate evolutions surprisingly
porcupines are rodents like all rodents
they have big front teeth which
typically look as if they have never
been cleaned on second thought this is
probably true porcupines use these teeth
to munch on vegetation as for hedgehogs
their snouts and teeth are pointy and
they are omnivores feasting on insects
frogs plants and fruit these cuties are
common in Africa Asia and Europe but if
you see a spiky creature in the
wilderness of south or North America
it's a porcupine
[Music]
llamas versus alpacas these even-toed
ungulates belong to the same family
camilla de to tell the difference first
pay attention to their size mature
llamas are much larger than alpacas
whose weight typically varies between
100 pounds and 170 pounds as for an
adult llama it can wait as much as 400
pounds if it seems that both animals are
of the same shape look at their ears the
ears of alpacas are short and spear
shaped llamas boast long curved ears
plus a llamas face is longer and mostly
hairless and alpaca has a bit of a
smushed fluffy face
[Music]
crocodiles vs. alligators I wouldn't get
close to either of these guys both
crocodiles and alligators belong to the
same order crocodilia actually both
species have much in common except for
one thing their salt tolerance
crocodiles are the lucky owners of
special glands which they used to
excrete excess salt that's why they feel
absolutely at home in saltwater habitats
as well as mangrove swamps situated
close to the coast as for alligators
their salt glands aren't so well
developed that's why they mostly live in
freshwater you should also pay attention
to the shape of their heads in most
cases although there are some exceptions
alligators have you shaped snouts and
crocodile's jaws are v-shaped
[Music]
sea lions versus seals both seals and
sea lions are fin fitted animals or
pinnipeds however sea lions flippers are
larger and covered with skin seals have
a thinly web flipper and each small toe
has a claw seals are generally smaller
and are happier in water than on land
you might have noticed that they prefer
to crawl on these bellies when they get
out of the water as for sea lions these
creatures can walk sea lions have ears
that look like cute little flaps seals
don't have any external ears finally
seals prefer solitude and sea lions love
gathering in big companies and hanging
out with friends behaving in a pretty
noisy way wasps versus bees Hymenoptera
is the order to which both bees and
wasps belong
these are hairy they need this feature
to dip into flowers to collect pollen
also their rear legs are flat bees look
more stocky wasps have smoother
hourglass bodies with tiny waists and
their legs are more slender hmm like
supermodels as for the attitude of these
insects wasps are more aggressive
especially when protecting their nest
these on the other hand are calmer and
more docile frogs versus toads both
toads and frogs belong to the order and
Nura
but there are some substantial
differences between these species the
skin of most frogs is smooth while a
toad skin is thick and bumpy frogs legs
are long and slender and delicious and
their eyes are big and bulging as for
toads their legs are shorter and their
eyes are smaller if you're lucky you may
notice one more difference frogs
organize their eggs in a cluster that
looks like a bunch of grapes toads lay
eggs in a strand
[Music]
dolphins vs. porpoises dolphins and
porpoises both belong to the order sit
Asia to tell them apart you need to pay
attention to their bodies fins and faces
most dolphins have pointy faces curved
dorsal fins and slender bodies porpoises
have triangular back fins robust bodies
and rounded faces in addition porpoises
have spade-shaped teeth and their mouths
are smaller dolphins teeth are
cone-shaped and more prominent Turtles
vs. tortoises both turtles and tortoises
are reptiles and belong to the order
Chelonia but turtles have webbed feet as
they live mostly in water and this makes
swimming easier also their shells are
lighter and flatter tortoises in turn
prefer the land their feet aren't wet as
this would make it harder for them to
move through uneven terrain and dig the
ground you will always recognize a
tortoise thanks to its heavy dome-like
shell
[Music]
leopards versus Jaguars both species are
speckled and both are in fact big cats
however your first clue should be where
you see the animal you can fight Jaguars
in Central and South America and
sometimes in the southwest of the USA as
for leopards they dwell in Asia and
Africa another way to distinguish these
big cats is to examine the clusters of
dark spots that decorate their fur if
you dare to get that close inside each
of these clusters Jaguars have smaller
spots leopards are more slender and a
bit smaller than Jaguars they also have
longer tails so which pair of animals do
you find the hardest to tell apart tell
us in the comments below don't forget to
like this video and subscribe to our
Channel this is the best way to stay
with us on the bright side of life
[Music]